---
title: "Call for Proposals"
bg: blue
color: white
fa-icon: check-square-o
---

Deadline for proposals: **Friday 1 October 23:59 GMT**

The School of Society and Culture at the University of Plymouth is delighted to host the British Forum for Ethnomusicology and Royal Musical Association Research Students’ Conference from January 6 to 8, 2022. The conference is planned to take place in Plymouth and delegates are expected to present in-person, in order to allow for the maximum benefit of networking and social interaction. We welcome UK and international postgraduates to present their research and compositions in an inclusive, friendly, and supportive atmosphere. The conference will include papers, panels, lecture-recitals, instrumental and electroacoustic composition workshops, specialist sessions (e.g. research skills, careers, etc.), concerts, social and networking events, and satellite activities. Note that there will be a very limited number of individual online paper presentations for those unable to travel due to SARS-CoV-2 restrictions; panels, lecture-recitals and compositions cannot be accommodated online.

The Research Students’ Conference is an opportunity for postgraduate students to share their work with a wide audience and to foster interdisciplinary connections across a variety of musical disciplines. Presentation and composition proposals can relate to any aspect of musical research including, but not limited to, musicology, ethnomusicology, music psychology, composition, audiovisual media, performance, creative practices, and research that cuts across disciplinary boundaries. We are delighted that the Hermes Experiment will be workshopping research students’ compositions and playing a concert for delegates. The electroacoustic composition workshop will be led by the Computer Music pioneer Professor Eduardo Miranda. 

We are pleased to announce that the keynote lectures will be delivered by:

* Amada Hsieh (Chinese University of Hong Kong), winner of the Jerome Roche Prize, on behalf of the RMA.
* Lindsay Copeland (University of Toronto), winner of the BFE Early Career Prize, on behalf of the BFE.

For general conference enquiries, please email: rsc2022@plymouth.ac.uk

### Call for Papers and Lecture-Recitals
Postgraduate research students are invited to submit proposals in the following formats:

* 20-minute individual paper
* 30-minute lecture recital

Individual proposals should consist of a title and an abstract of no more than 250 words. Please submit them through the application portal, which will also require the following information: name, email address, institutional affiliation, programme of study and year, and technical requirements (if any).

For lecture-recitals, a Yamaha grand piano will be available. Please note that there is strictly no playing inside or preparing the piano allowed.

### Call for Panels

* 90-minutes panel (three 20-minute papers and 30 minutes of discussion)

If proposing a panel, please provide a title and an abstract of no more than 250 words for each contribution to the session, following the above guidelines. An additional 400-word rationale is required, that makes clear the purpose of the session, its theme, and the ways in which the individual contributions relate to each other. Please indicate whether an independent chair will be required.

### Call for Posters

Postgraduate taught (e.g. MA, MMus, etc.) and research students (e.g. PhD, MPhil, MRes, etc.) are invited to submit proposals for a poster on their original research. There will be a poster competition with prizes including Cambridge University Press book vouchers. The winning and runner-up posters will be featured on the RMA Student Blog.

Poster proposals should include a title and a 250-word abstract. Please submit them through the application portal, which will also require the following information: name, email address, institutional affiliation, programme of study and year, and technical requirements (if any).

Note that it will be the delegates’ responsibility to print their own poster. We can advise on local printers.

### Call for Compositions

Compositions are invited for the Hermes Experiment (soprano, clarinet, harp, double bass). They may be a movement or excerpt of a larger work (up to 5 minutes long). Selected composition will be workshopped by the Hermes Experiment.

Submission Guidelines: Compositions should be submitted in PDF format accompanied by a brief text of no more than 250 words outlining poetic and technical aspects of the piece. These materials should be submitted through the application portal. Please also provide the following information when submitting your proposal through the application portal: name, email address, institutional affiliation, programme of study, year of composition. Composers whose works are selected will be responsible for producing performing materials at their own expense, and these will need to be available by XXX.

### Call for Electroacoustic Compositions

Electroacoustic compositions (no more than 10 minutes) are invited for performance over a diffusion system. Electroacoustic pieces including acoustic instruments are possible if you arrange for your own performers and instruments. Pieces will be workshopped by Professor Eduardo Miranda and performed live during an electroacoustic composition session at the conference.

Submission Guidelines: Pieces should be submitted via a WeTransfer link uploaded to the application portal. It should be accompanied by a brief text of no more than 250 words outlining poetic and technical aspects of the piece. Please also provide the following information when submitting your proposal through the application portal: name, email address, institutional affiliation, programme of study, year of composition.

Electroacoustic compositions should be submitted at 44.1kHz sampling rate. Multi-channel works are permitted, but due to performance restrictions, must not require more than 8 channels. Multi-channel submissions should be a stereo downmix; full multi-channel will be requested upon acceptance. 

